Move DNS, DHCP, and TFTP content to a new guide (#3530)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/common/modules/proc_integrating-a-generic-rfc-2136-compatible-remote-dns-server.adoc

----
+
Example output:
+
[source, none, options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
Using domain server:
Name: 192.168.25.1
Address: 192.168.25.1#53
Aliases: 

test.example.com has address 192.168.25.20
----
.. If resolved successfully, remove the test DNS entry:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# echo -e "server 192.168.25.1\n \
update delete _test.example.com_ 3600 IN A 192.168.25.20\n \
send\n" | nsupdate -k /etc/foreman-proxy/rndc.key
----
.. Confirm that the DNS entry was removed:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# host _test.example.com_ 192.168.25.1
----
+
If the command returns `Host _test.example.com_ not found: 3(NXDOMAIN)`, the record was successfully deleted.
. Configure {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer} to use the DNS server:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# {foreman-installer} \
--foreman-proxy-dns true \
--foreman-proxy-dns-provider nsupdate \
--foreman-proxy-dns-managed false \
--foreman-proxy-dns-server "_dns_server_ip_address_" \
--foreman-proxy-keyfile /etc/foreman-proxy/rndc.key
----
. For the affected {SmartProxy}, update the configuration of that {SmartProxy} in the {ProjectWebUI}.

> See xref:associating-the-dns-service-with-a-domain-and-subnet[].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see xref:associating-the-dns-service-with-a-domain-and-subnet[].
```

[id="integrating-a-generic-rfc-2136-compatible-remote-dns-server"]
= Integrating a generic RFC 2136-compatible remote DNS server

You can configure {ProductName} to integrate a remote DNS server that supports dynamic updates as defined in RFC 2136.
In this case, {ProductName} uses the `nsupdate` utility to update DNS records on the remote server.

.Prerequisites
* The remote DNS service is configured.
* The remote DNS service supports RFC 2136-compatible dynamic updates

> * You copied the `/etc/rndc.key` file from the external DNS server to `/etc/foreman-proxy/rndc.key` on the {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer}.

Reviewer 2: The `/etc/rndc.key` path feels too specific to me. This still feels a bit verbose, but what I'm thinking.
```suggestion
* The RNDC key file to connect to the external DNS server is placed in `/etc/foreman-proxy/rndc.key` on the {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer}.
```

Reviewer 3: I slightly rephrased it to avoid the word "external".

[id="integrating-a-generic-rfc-2136-compatible-remote-dns-server"]
= Integrating a generic RFC 2136-compatible remote DNS server

You can configure {ProductName} to integrate a remote DNS server that supports dynamic updates as defined in RFC 2136.
In this case, {ProductName} uses the `nsupdate` utility to update DNS records on the remote server.

.Prerequisites
* The remote DNS service is configured.
* The remote DNS service supports RFC 2136-compatible dynamic updates

.Procedure
. Copy the `/etc/rndc.key` file from the external DNS server to {ProductName}:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes"]
----

> # scp root@_dns.example.com_:/etc/rndc.key /etc/foreman-proxy/rndc.key

Reviewer 3: ACK.

I removed the step and added a prerequisite:
* You copied the `/etc/rndc.key` file from the external DNS server to `/etc/foreman-proxy/rndc.key` on the {ProductServer} or {SmartProxyServer}.

----

. Configure the ownership, permissions, and SELinux context:
+
[options="nowrap"]
----
ifndef::foreman-deb[]
# restorecon -v /etc/foreman-proxy/rndc.key
endif::[]
# chown -v root:foreman-proxy /etc/foreman-proxy/rndc.key
# chmod -v 640 /etc/foreman-proxy/rndc.key
----

> . On {ProjectServer}, create a test DNS entry for a host.

Reviewer 2: I'd say testing it is optional and technically more of a verification step, but right now it's between the procedure and not really end to end testing.

Right now I'd suggest to still move it to a verification section. Later we can improve on it by providing a verification command.

Reviewer 3: I had the same idea but then I had doubts:

These steps only confirm that I can use the key and to update DNS entries with nsupdate. They don't prove that Foreman can do dynamic DNS updates (which is the expected result of the procedure). A real verification step would be to let Foreman update a DNS entry and then check if the result is there.

I vote for keeping the steps as part of the procedure. I grouped them under an "Optional" step so readers can easily skip them, but I think they should be a part of the procedure because, if manual updates by using nsupdate don't work, then Foreman will also fail.

WDYT?

Reviewer 2: > These steps only confirm that I can use the key and to update DNS entries with nsupdate. They don't prove that Foreman can do dynamic DNS updates (which is the expected result of the procedure). A real verification step would be to let Foreman update a DNS entry and then check if the result is there.

Exactly, but for that to work you first need to reconfigure the Smart Proxy which is done by the installer.

> I vote for keeping the steps as part of the procedure. I grouped them under an "Optional" step so readers can easily skip them, but I think they should be a part of the procedure because, if manual updates by using nsupdate don't work, then Foreman will also fail.

Short term I think your solution is good, but long term we should track it as an issue. Potentially with some engineering work needed to resolve it.

A long time ago I had the idea to implement https://github.com/theforeman/smart-proxy/pull/847. This would be a more questionable check since it actually modifies data. However, you can probably at least perform a dummy command or one that will never modify data to verify the connection.

My idea was to first get the verification APIs in place. Then whenever you refresh features you can also call the verification API. This is something the installer does and you would then have it captured.

We could then also implement the same for Infoblox and PowerDNS where it would just establish an HTTPS connection for verification.

Reviewer 3: This would be great if there's an API or a command in Foreman the user can use to test dynamic updates. This would then be a true verification step that proves that the expected result of the procedure works.
